[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Before we broke, we were
talking, we kind of introduced this idea
of the scope mechanism and how the scope
gets registered in the compile phase.
How we look up LHS references.
This example's gonna more firmly
concrete some of those ideas and
show us some of the differences there.
We are gonna pick up our pace a little
bit because we wanna make sure we get to
a bunch of great stuff today.
But the questions have been great.
I don't mean at all to
discourage questions.
Please keep asking questions
both here in person and
as well there on the video stream.
Okay, so now you should be familiar
with that terminology of LHS and
RHS, so I'm gonna require you guys now to
respond, you guys that are here in person.
Tell me what is going to happen when
we try to compile this program.
What is the first step when we
try to compile this program?
>> Speaker 2: It's scope
do you know about foo.
>> Kyle Simpson: Which
scope are we talking about?
>> Speaker 2: Global scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: Global scope.
We're compiling, we're not executing yet.
So, what is the compiling phase
going to do with line one?
>> Speaker 2: I will now expect
something to be assigned to foo.
Or I now know foo.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
that's one way of saying it.
A slightly more formal way of
saying it would be to say,
hey global scope, I have a declaration for
a variable called foo.
Okay?
So I'm gonna declare a variable foo and
the scope would respond back, got it.
I've got them registered in the scope now.
You can move on.
And we're gonna ignore
the right hand side,
because theres no declarations there.
Where's the next declaration that
the compiler's gonna worry about?
>> Speaker 2: Line 3.
>> Kyle Simpson: Line 3.
The function bar.
So we're gonna say, hey global scope,
I have a function called bar, and
I wanna register him in the global scope.
And not only the name, but
also the function, in this case,
it's a function declaration.
So, line 3's gonna register that function.
Now, we recognize that it's a function so,
we wanna go ahead and
recursively descent in and
compile that function, bar.
Now, we're inside of the scope of bar.
How are we gonna compile the scope of bar?
>> Speaker 2: Hey scope of bar, I would
like to declare a variable named foo.
>> Kyle Simpson: Exactly.
I have a declaration for
a variable called foo.
That's from line four.
Okay, great.
Line four has been declared.
Moving on.
What's next?
>> Speaker 2: Function, or scope of bar
I have a declaration for a function baz.
>> Kyle Simpson: Exactly.
Here's the declaration baz,
the scope of bar responds back, good,
I've got them registered.
Now, we recognize it's a function,
we recursively descent in.
How are we going to
compile the function baz?
>> Speaker 3: I just see
the declaration of foo on line six.
>> Kyle Simpson: See a named parameter for
foo, which is an implicit declaration.
So it will say hey scope of baz,
I have a declaration.
He's a named parameter, but
I have a declaration for
an identifier called foo, okay.
Any more compilation
that's going to occur?
Any more declarations anywhere?
Does everybody feel confident that
we've now compiled our program?
At least for
the purposes of scope discussion?
Okay?
Now, it's a couple of microseconds later,
let's go ahead and execute.
What we know is that line one is
not gonna have a var anymore so
let's execute line one as an operation.
How is line one gonna be
executed by the engine?
What's the conversation gonna look like?
>> Speaker 4: I have a left-hand
side identifier named.
>> Kyle Simpson: Which scope
are we talking to, we gotta be.
>> Speaker 4: Global scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: Hey
global scope I have a.
>> Speaker 4: Left hand.
>> Kyle Simpson: I have an LHS reference
for a variable called?
>> Speaker 4: Foo.
>> Kyle Simpson: Ever heard of him?
What's the global scope gonna respond?
Yes I have, here you go and he's going to
give us a reference back to that variable.
So then we proceed to make our assignment
to it cause we got an immediate value so
we make that assignment to foo.
Everybody feel comfortable with line one?
Moving on.
Lines 3 through 11 don't exist anymore
cause they were compiled away so
we're moving on to line 13.
That's going to be our next execution.
How is line 13 going to execute?
>> Speaker 4: Global scope
do you have a reference?
>> Kyle Simpson: What kind of a reference?
>> Speaker 4: A function reference.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not
quite what it's going to say.
It's gotta be an LHS or an RHS.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
it is going to be an RHS, but why?
And here's the key distinction.
This is kind of a weird way to define it,
but it's your best what you.
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: Not exactly.
Here's the way to explain it.
The reason it's an RHS is
because it's not an LHS, okay.
>> Speaker 4: [LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: I know that sounds silly,
but there's not an assignment
going on with line 13.
The bar reference is not being
assigned to, it's being used.
So because it's not an LHS, it's an RHS.
So on line 13, we say, hey global scope,
I have an RHS reference for
a variable called bar.
Now here's why it's important, because
the RHS reference is going to behave
differently depending upon declared and
not declared.
We'll get to that in just a moment.
But I have an RHS preference for
variable called bar,
what's the global scope going to
respond to, what's he going to say?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah I do, here you go,
here's a reference to that variable so
I can go and retrieve that value.
Now I go and retrieve that value,
and what is that value?
Line three it was A.
Function object, okay?
So I get back a function object.
Now I see this open close
parenthesis on line 13.
And good news, I don't have to sweat
it because I got a function back and
I'm going to attempt to
execute the function.
So line 13 will attempt to execute
the function that we just retrieved from
the bar variable,
everybody feel comfortable with that?
>> Speaker 2: Does the scope turn this
into an apply and assign it with this?
Is that happening behind the scenes?
>> Kyle Simpson: No, if you look at
the way the spec is written there are
different rules for the way a function is
called when it's called like it's called
on line 13 versus when it's called with a
dot call or apply and when we get to this
discussion this afternoon Well maybe this
morning, but we'll for sure see that.
>> Speaker 2: Great.
>> Kyle Simpson: Very clearly, okay.
Okay, so
line 13 we've called the bar function.
Let's execute the bar function.
How are we gonna execute,
starting with line 4?
>> Speaker 3: Scope of bar.
>> Kyle Simpson: Hey scope of bar,
I have an LHS reference.
It is really uncomfortable that I
force you to use all this terminology.
Isn't it?
I have an LHS reference for
a variable called?
>> Speaker 3: Foo.
Foo, ever heard of him?
What is the answer going to be?
>> Speaker 2: yes.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep.
I have heard of him.
So he gives me a reference back to that.
Is the reference that I get on line four
a reference to the local variable foo or
to the global one?
>> Speaker 2: Local.
>> Kyle Simpson: Local.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's clearly the local,
because it was declared local.
So it's kind of a first come,
first served.
I look for it in my local scope first and
I only go fish if I don't find it there.
So if I find it there it's
always gonna be used.
In a sense this is called shadowing,
because now that I have declared
a variable inside of the function bar.
Everywhere inside of this function
that I reference something called foo,
it's always at worst gonna be this guy and
not that guy.
Because every time we do a scope
lookup we're gonna find it first,
first come first serve,
in this function bar.
Everybody with that?
So that's called shadowing.
There's no lexical way for
us inside, beyond line four or anywhere
inside of the function for that matter,
but beyond line four there's no way for
us to say foo and mean the global foo.
At least lexically,
we could say something like window.foo but
that's a different mechanism altogether.
Okay.
So we've executed like four.
Let's execute, remember that lines six
through nine are not there anymore,
because they're been compiled away.
So let's execute line ten.
>> Speaker 5: We have an RHS.
>> Kyle Simpson: Hey scope of.
>> Speaker 2: Bar.
>> Kyle Simpson: Bar, I have an.
>> Speaker 2: RHS
>> Kyle Simpson: RHS reference for
a variable called.
>> Speaker 2: baz
>> Kyle Simpson: baz, ever heard of him,
what's the answer going to be?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
>> Kyle Simpson: I heard a no,
do you understand?
We see was declared here right.
Okay, so the answer is yes, I've heard of
him because he was declared just recently.
Okay, great.
I need to get his value.
What is his value?
His value's a function, right?
So we go ahead and get that function
value, and then how do we execute it?
We call this open close parentheses so
we execute that.
So let's do the job of the execution
engine, let's execute baz.
How is baz gonna execute?
Again we're not passing in a value here,
so
we don't have to worry about
the assignment part of the parameter.
We're just gonna execute baz.
How does it execute?
>> Kyle Simpson: Starting with line 7.
>> Speaker 2: Hey scope of baz,
I have a left-handed reference for
a variable named foo.
Do you know of him?
>> Kyle Simpson: Exactly.
Good job.
Hey, scope of baz, I have an LHS
reference for a variable called foo.
Ever heard of him?
What's the answer gonna be?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes, because he
was declared as in the parameter.
So I get a reference back to that
local variable and I can assign to it.
When I assign bam here am I assigning
it to this foo or to that foo?
>> Kyle Simpson: Am I assigning
it to this foo or that foo?
Always to my local foo, right?
Always to my baz copy of foo, right?
Because of that shadow.
Okay?
Now, let's execute line eight.
How's line eight gonna work?
>> Speaker 3: The scope of baz.
Evan, do you have an LHS of bam?
>> Kyle Simpson: Ever heard of him?
>> Speaker 3: Nope.
>> Kyle Simpson: What's
the answer gonna be?
Nope.
Go fish.
So where are we gonna go next?
>> Speaker 2: Bar.
>> Kyle Simpson: A scope of bar.
I have an.
>> Speaker 3: LHS.
>> Kyle Simpson: LHS reference for
a variable called bam.
Ever heard of him?
>> Speaker 3: Nope.
>> Kyle Simpson: Go fish.
Where we gonna go next?
>> Speaker 2: Global.
>> Kyle Simpson: Hey global scope.
I have an LHS reference for variable call.
>> Speaker 2: Bam.
>> Kyle Simpson: Bam.
Ever heard of him?
What's the answer gonna be?
>> Speaker 2: Just made him.
>> Kyle Simpson: I just made him for you.
I'm such a helpful guy.
>> Kyle Simpson: Many people wonder.
This is a very controversial
part of this auto global thing
that is kind of a nightmare.
It's the bane of our existence,
but you wonder.
Now, I know that everybody in this
room and everybody that's online,
I know that everybody writes
perfect JavaScript now.
Shockingly back int he early days
people wrote bad JavaScript.
I don't know how it's possible
cuz we all write good now but
they wrote bad JavaScript back in the day.
And one of the things that was a problem
is that they forgot to make their
declarations and they left off
their vars and things like that.
So that's one possible explanation for
how we arrive at such crappy behavior.
The fact of the matter
is it's been removed,
as it's strict mode, because pretty much
everyone agree's that's terrible behavior,
just shouldn't be there.
Okay so we, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: In the result I've
created a declared bam in global scope,
and it's undefined?
>> Kyle Simpson: No,
it's the assignment value, so
we've finished executing line eight
which assigns A to which variable?
The global variable.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: Exactly.
>> Speaker 5: I have a question.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: The baz,
should it not take
a parameter of type foo?
>> Kyle Simpson: You're
talking about line ten, right?
>> Speaker 5: Yep.
>> Kyle Simpson: You're saying should line
ten have a parameter.
Well it could, but it doesn't have to.
JavaScript doesn't require you,
it's variadic functions, so
you can pass in values or
not pass in values.
You can pass in too few or
too many or whatever.
So just for simplification purposes,
I chose not to worry about
the assignment of parameter values.
But, yeah you could pass
in the number 42 here,
on line ten you can pass that
inside those parenthesis.
And it would get passed along
as the initial value for foo.
So on line six and a half, foo would
have that value that you passed in.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
we finished executing line 13.
Now let's execute line 14.
Now, this is just a short hand way.
It's kind of like doing a console.log but
I'm asking to evaluate the value of
that variable at the current time.
So what is the value of foo on line 14?
>> Speaker 3: Var.
>> Kyle Simpson: First of all,
how do we execute line 14?
>> Speaker 3: A global scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: A global scope,
like an RHS.
Why is it an RHS?
>> Speaker 3: Cuz there's no
>> Kyle Simpson: Cuz it's
not an LHS, okay.
A RHS reference, for a variable called
foo, ever heard of him global scope.
And what does global scope say?
>> Speaker 3: Yep.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes I've heard of him,
he was registered before.
What is his current value when I ask for
his current value?
Is it bam?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: Is it baz?
No, it's clearly it's bar.
Everybody follow that?
Okay.
Line 15, how's line 15 gonna execute?
>> Speaker 2: Global scope,
I have an RHS bam.
>> Kyle Simpson: Hey globalbscope I
have an RHS of bam ever heard of him
What's the answer gonna be?
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
I created him just recently.
What is his current value?
>> Speaker 4: yay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, It's the yay value.
Everybody with me, so far?
Alright, now let's execute line 16.
How does line 16 execute?
>> Speaker 3: Global Scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: Hey global scope,
I have an?
>> Speaker 3: RHS.
>> Kyle Simpson: RHS reference for
a variable called?
>> Speaker 3: baz.
>> Kyle Simpson: baz.
Ever heard of him?
>> Speaker 4: Nope.
>> Kyle Simpson: Nope.
Okay, here's where it gets different,
because in the other cases where we
ask the global scope for an LHS and
it went unfulfilled, it was an undeclared
declaration, in non-strict mode it
automatically created one for us.
With an RHS reference that goes
unfulfilled, it's not gonna automatically
create a baz function out of thin air,
because how could it possibly do that?
So what it's going to do instead is throw
us what's called a reference error.
So line 16 will result in a reference
error because there is no
identifier baz that's in any scope that's
accessible to that current line of code.
baz was existing inside of this scope, but
he did not get registered in the global
scope, therefore we cannot call him.
Does everybody follow?
>> Speaker 5: That's true for
both strict and non-strict?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's true for
both strict and non strict.
So in non strict mode, reference errors
result from unfulfilled or undeclared RHS
references but automatic globals result
from unfulfilled or undeclared LHS.
In strict mode they both
result in a reference error.